"""features of python"""
1. Easy Language
2. Readable
3. Interpreted Language
4. Dynamically-Typed Language
5. Object-Oriented
6.Open-Source
7.Large Standard Library
8. high level language


"""What is object-oriented programming?"""
Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a computer programming model that organizes 
software design around data, or objects, rather than functions and logic.



"""What can Python do?"""
Python can be used on a server to create web applications.
Python can be used alongside software to create workflows.
Python can connect to database systems. It can also read and modify files.
Python can be used to handle big data and perform complex mathematics.
Python can be used for rapid prototyping, or for production-ready software development.

"""Why Python?"""
Python works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc).
Python has a simple syntax similar to the English language.
Python has syntax that allows developers to write programs with fewer lines than some other programming languages.
Python runs on an interpreter system, meaning that code can be executed as soon as it is written. This means that prototyping can be very quick.
Python can be treated in a procedural way, an object-oriented way or a functional way.

"""Python Indentation"""
Python uses indentation to indicate a block of code.

"""Comments""'
Python has commenting capability for the purpose of in-code documentation.
there are two types of comments namely single line comment and multiline 
single comment starts with # and for multi line we have to use 3 single quotes.


"""Variables""'
Variables are containers for storing data values.
Python has no command for declaring a variable. hence python is called dynamically typed language















Why Python?
Easy to learn
Easy to write code
Big Community support
Used to make GUI applications
In demand
Used for scripting and automation
Web development
Data Science
Machine learning
Artificial Intelligence
Easy image processing
Rich in libraries




How to check versions of Python in your system:
To check versions/version of Python installed on your system, open command prompt(terminal), 
type “python”, hit enter then you will see the version of python installed on your system.

Main Applications of Python
Here are some of the main applications of Python:

Data Science
Automation
Application Development
Artificial Intelligence
Machine Learning
Web development
Business applications
Image Processing
Desktop GUI
Audio/Video Applications
Scientific Calculations
Embedded Application